Bits Code: add GitLab support (#37572)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/bits_ai/bits_ai_dev_agent/automations.md

---

## Overview

> Create an automation to have Bits Code start a [session][1] when a trigger fires, such as a new Code Security finding or a recurring schedule, then deliver the results as a pull or merge request or Slack notification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create an automation to have Bits Code start a [session][1] when a trigger fires—such as a new Code Security finding or a recurring schedule. Bits Code delivers the results as a pull or merge request, or a Slack notification.
```

Reviewer: I know you're only adding `or merge` here — but I was making a suggestion to add the comma anyway, and the sentence is getting a bit long

{{< img src="bits_ai/dev_agent/automations/list.png" alt="Under an 'Automate with Bits' title, a table with columns like Name, Author, and Last Run has four rows." style="width:100%;" >}}

With Bits Code automations, you can:

- Generate code fixes on a schedule, without starting each session manually
- Have Bits Code respond to signals from other Datadog products, such as a new APM Recommendation, a flaky test, or a Code Security finding

> - Route the resulting code changes directly to a pull or merge request or notify a team in Slack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Route the resulting code changes directly to a pull or merge request, or notify a team in Slack
```

Click **Add Trigger** to add a component. You can combine a product finding with a schedule, a custom prompt with a schedule, or use a product finding on its own.

> To limit how many Bits Code sessions the automation can create in a given period (for example, `5 runs per Week`), click **Add Trigger** > **Set max runs**. One automation execution may produce more than one session. Use this setting to control the volume of pull or merge requests or notifications an automation produces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To limit how many Bits Code sessions the automation can create in a given period (for example, `5 runs per Week`), click **Add Trigger** > **Set max runs**. One automation execution may produce more than one session. Use this setting to control the volume of pull or merge requests, or notifications an automation produces.
```

> To limit how many Bits Code sessions the automation can create in a given period (for example, `5 runs per Week`), click **Add Trigger** > **Set max runs**. One automation execution may produce more than one session. Use this setting to control the volume of pull or merge requests or notifications an automation produces.

Author: ```suggestion
To limit how many Bits Code sessions the automation can create in a given period (for example, `5 runs per Week`), click **Add Trigger** > **Set max runs**. One automation execution may produce more than one session. Use this setting to control the volume of pull or merge requests, or Slack notifications, an automation produces.
```

  - **Flaky Tests** supports filtering by **Repository**, **Branch** (defaults to the repository's default branch), and **Status**.
  - **Code Security (SAST)** supports filtering by **Repository**, **Severity**, **Rule to remediate**, and a toggle to **Filter out findings identified as false positives by Bits AI**.

> <div class="alert alert-warning">Each finding that triggers an automation is tied to a single session. Multiple findings cannot be fixed in a single session or pull or merge request.</div>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-warning">Each finding that triggers an automation is tied to a single session. Multiple findings cannot be fixed in a single session. Each finding requires its own pull or merge request.</div>
```

Reviewer: Suggesting this because the repetition of "or" here made this take a bit longer to parse — but I'm open to alternatives if you prefer a different phrasing.

> <div class="alert alert-warning">Each finding that triggers an automation is tied to a single session. Multiple findings cannot be fixed in a single session or pull or merge request.</div>

Author: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-warning">Each finding that triggers an automation must have its own session, and related pull or merge request. Multiple findings cannot be fixed in a single session.</div>
```

  - **Custom Schedule**: Choose specific days of the week and a time of day (for example, `Mo, We, Fr at 03:00 pm`).

## Outputs

> An output defines what Bits Code does after a [session][1] completes. An automation can have one or more outputs, including [opening a pull/merge request](#pull-merge-request-output) and [generating a Slack notification](#slack-message-output).

Reviewer: The correct heading for this anchor would be `#pullmerge-request-output` since Hugo doesn't replace the slash with a hyphen. With that said, I've left feedback elsewhere about removing the `/`, so I'm not sure what the final heading and link will be.

> ### Pull/merge request output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Pull/merge request output

```
